Hello Hello
Sawasdee Krub!
Okay, so...
Okay, if you follow tech stack news on
YouTube channels like Theo or ThePrimeagen
You may be familiar with this video.
Hello Hello?
About 2-3 days ago, someone made
a tech stack called the BETHStack.
If you go on Twitter, quite a lot
of people know abut it.
Part of that stack is Elysia.
Elysia is a TypeScript web framework
that is designed to be fast.
If anyone doesn't know, it is similar to
Express but it's like 17x faster.
Similar code, but 17x faster.
The framework is written in TypeScript.
Running it on multiple processes can yield
performance comparable to Rust's Actix,
Go Fiber, or Gin.
When it comes to TypeScript web server,
it is considered very fast.
It's almost unbelievable, right?
It is made possible by two things:
The framework is designed
to be run on top of Bun.
Bun is like a very fast JS runtime.
It aims to be a drop-in Node alternative.
It also leverages Static Code Analysis
and Dynamic Code Injection.
It analyzes the endpoint's code and
dynamically generates code
tailered to that endpoint
with low overhead.
But today, I'm not going to talk about
why it's fast or why it's like this --
I'm going to talk about
why people like Elysia
and how is the developer experience.
If anyone has ever written a backend, they
would know that to set up authentication
it would take a fairly long time,
like 2 hours, 3 hours.
But in Elysia, now there is an
experimental project called Elysia Elf.
It allows us to set up
Elysia project very easily.
We just need to type in the command.
Let's see how it works.
Well, let me put the mic down and
increase the screen size a little bit.
Okay, so to create an Elysia project,
we type in "bun create elysia"
followed by the project name.
I set the project name to 08.
Ok, here's what happened.
Once we run bun create,
it generates a project.
We "cd" into the project.
Let's look at the code, "src/index".
This is an Elysia server.
The main thing is that we type in the code.
Okay, do dot get and then say that this method can do what.
It's like xpress.
Think of it like xpress.
But we don't have a request.
We just send the value back and it will be a server.
Now, let's try to set up the authentication.
First, we set up the restdit stack.
Then we run the docker.
Actually, it should have run already.
Run the docker.
Run the docker postgres to be the authentication.
Here, you see that I just created a new project, right?
Here, it will have an experimental one.
If you have ever written Laravel or Ruby on Rails, it will have CLI for generating projects.
Elysia also has it, the name is f.
When we type in this command, I type in the word f add.
This will be all the plugins that we can use.
What do you want?
For example, if you want to get GraphQL, want to get Strict plugin, want to get Swagger plugin, then enter.
Then answer a few questions and it will be like.
The host will update the back side.
Hey, what plugins have we added?
Then we add that we want to get GraphQL plugins.
Then it will extend everything to all.
Here, we will try to run the server first.
Pnpmdata.
Run server to port 3000.
Go to localhost 3000.
Swagger.
It will have all the Swagger files.
This is that we don't have to write the API itself to see what it wants.
Here, the cool thing is that Elysia has a cheat.
Suppose we want to get authentication.
We type in elf generate auth.
And say that we want to get ORM.
I'll take Prisma.
And save Redis for saving sessions.
Here, if you have ever used it.
If you use Prisma, it's like an ORM of TypeScript.
It makes it possible to write code.
It's very easy to manage with database.
I take the database as a postcase.
And set the URL to be something like this.
Database URL.
Do you want to migrate database?
Yes.
Here, the rest.
This one will manage the data migration for all of these.
And it will ask if I want to get OAuth provider.
Just a moment.
Wait a minute.
Postcase.
And then.
I forgot to migrate database.
But it's okay.
File location.
Okay, all done.
I just type this.
And I run pnpm run dev.
Go to swagger.
There is an additional part.
It's about authentication.
All these libraries will come.
It will create this file.
Auth.ts
src.js
All of them.
I will try to create a user.
Take one as src.js
and take it as src.js src.js src.js src.js
src.js
src.js src.js src.js src.js
src.js src.js src.js
src.js src.js
Now I'm trying to do a sign in.
Okay.
Of course, swagger is quite useful.
The timer is off.
The concept is
Elysia can do something called n2n type-shifting.
If you have ever written in RPC, you can use the type in the server on Cayenne, right?
Elysian can do it too, but it's less full.
Suppose I have a server, I add a folder called identity.
This is a project that has been set up.
Let's say it's in normal JS and use it.
It's an easy one, it's a normal JS project.
But now we'll see that it imports the type from this server.
The server will come from this type.
I want it to add a type as a source.
Type, add as source, index.ts
And I said that I exported the type of this server.
Export, type of app.
I can use the type of this server.
I can use it on Cayenne.
And then I'll go back here and run it at identity.
08 run server Elysian together.
And then run the server in JS together.
Go to localhost 3001.
Okay, here you can see that we go to the server here.
Okay, reload for a moment.
And then go to this server.
This server, this API comes from the type we imported from the server.
And then enter into one function called identity.
This one is like a trpc for connecting Cayenne to the server.
By which we can type.
For example, in the server, I said that I have an API.
Index and auth, right?
In auth, what is it?
You can click and see it.
And then say, if we want to sign in, right?
And then call the post.
And then say that there is a parameter that we can insert.
Here, type save.
And if there is a change in the server, the Cayenne will change as well.
Here, I will try to create, let's say, create a new endpoint API.
And see if there is any more.
Now we have auth and index, right?
Therefore, we will try to create another endpoint.
Come up and see.
It looks like this.
I secretly have a point in case I can't keep up.
Therefore, I keep this one.
And then run, add method, check get.
Go to the slash android slash skadi.
And you will get this JSON back.
Here we go to Cayenne again.
We type the word API dot.
You will see that it has an additional path.
It's an android like just now.
And then dot skadi.
And then.
This is the method that we want.
Save.
We take the mouse to the data.
The mouse to where?
Data.
You will see that all types come from the server side.
For example, I said that there is ID, there is a name, there is a type.
All of these will be here.
Therefore, I will try to run on this one.
Save and run.
OK, this one is a bit missing.
The image is missing.
Therefore, I will add the image in.
We go to server Elysia.
And then we type the word bun f add.
To be static.
static plugin
add static plugin
add folder
of this
go to public
add image
reveal in finder
copy image
and paste in here
this is from API
we call
static plugin
default is public folder
try reload
you will see
what happen
I forgot to run server
go to
server
go to server
run
it will work
ok
another thing
you can
size in size out
if you write in react
you can do form authentication
but
in react query
you can type
any type
that's all
thank you
let's clap
yay